---
layout: post
title: My goals...
---
I did it, if finally completed the Rails Web Development Bootcamp. It took longer than planned and there were many MANY unexpected lessons learned along the way. I wouldn’t trade it for any other learning experience. 

Throughout my programming education experience I have been thinking about what I would like to eventually accomplish. I came up with a short list of short and long term goals. 

Short-term, goals to accomplish by February 2016.
1. Find an entry-level, remote position.
  This is a key goal. In order for me to succeed as a female programmer, I need to start my career as soon as possible! 

2. Expand my language repertoire.
  Every great programmer knows more than one language. And I have come to realize throughout my journey thus far the importance of knowing both front-end and back-end languages. I enjoy both but have focused mainly on Ruby on Rails.

3. Practice, practice, practice!!
  if you don’t use it, you loose it. I need to retain the information I have acquired so far by practicing! And learn some new tricks along the way.


Long-term:
Build an iOS app for children.
  I have 2 small children who will sit for hours and play games on my iPhone. It is a bit of an addiction for them, actually. I have to limit their time and they are constantly asking for another fix. When they do get to play, I prefer they play educational games. There are some great ones out there and the need for them will never end. Building an iOS app for my children would be a dream since it would be combing three things I love! Programming, my children and Apple products! 

2. Help other women become involved in programming.
  One of the (many) things that attracted me to Ruby was the lack of women who knew it. I wanted to be one of the few who did! I have made some huge leaps and bounds on my journey so far and I want to get other women involved in programming too! 
 
3. Practice, practice, practice!! (deja vu!)
  The programming industry is ever changing. Learning will be a career-long necessity and I will continue my education through online resources (there are a ton of them!)
In order for a programmer to be successful they must know many different languages. And for a back end ruby developer, it is important to know front-end development as well. How do I achieve this? Practice, practice, practice!!  

The internet is a treasure trove of knowledge! I have seen and learned so much on my learning-to-program-journey so far and I cannot wait to see what the next discovery will be. There is a lot of work ahead of me, and I look forward to every bit of it!

